---
layout: page
top_menu: false
rank: taransak
tags: [city state, arion, estara]
---

Also known as the “The city of magic”, this city states resides inside the
south western part of of the Arion territory, although it is not a part of the
Arion alliance.

The city center houses a large number of magical guild houses, magic shops,
luxury inns, hotels and luxury eateries. Housing in the city center consists of
apartments for the extremely rich.  Around the city center, you will find
markets of mundane goods, houses for the rich and apartments for the upper
middle class.  Outside the city proper you will mostly find houses for the
lower and lower middle classes arranged as small (sometimes walled) villages.

On the periphery of these villages you will find farm houses and a few guard
houses and barracks.

Crime in Taransak is low. Taxes are relatively high. Anything purchased in the
city center is taxed by 25 percent if you are not a resident of the city.
Property owners pay property taxes, collected on a monthly basis. If a property
owner falls more than three months behind on their property taxes, the
ownership of the property defaults to the city. Any bank or money lender may
petition the city to recoup some of their losses.

#### Relationship with Arion

Taransak has a special relationship with the other city states of Arion; While
not part of the alliance, its magic users have often taken part in the defense
of Arion against Tyathia and the Wraith.

Magic users from all over Arion, and even from the rest of Estara come to study
in the guilds of Taransak, which makes Taransak ideal for diplomatic back
channel political communication.  On top of that, it is not uncommon for Arion,
its free city states and its constituent cities to have official political
meetings in Taransak because it is a convenient independent place without any
strong ties to any one nation.
