---
layout: page
title:  Ever Dungeon
top_menu: false rank: -1
---

# Premise

The world consists on a single enormous city and a never-ending, living dungeon
underneath it.

While this setting would obviously work in a fantasy or high fantasy campaign,
it could easily be adapted for other styles such as modern, futuristic,
cyberpunk, steampunk, superhero, etc.

## The City

The city is enormous. Most citizens live in very tall buildings, and the more
rich and powerful of course live in the top floors.

There are "top streets" at the higher levels, arranged so the wealthy can
traverse the city without having to go down to street level.

Magic or tech is used to assist in the creation of the tall buildings and,
their foundations and the elevators and support structures.

A tall wall surrounds the city to keep the hostile "outside" at bay.

The city can be expanded by so-called land-shards. These rare artifacts are
sometimes found in The Dungeon.  A land-shard is a device (magical or
technological) that can drive away the "outside" and expose an area of raw
bedrock. The city workers then have a very short amount of time to construct a
temporary bulwark against the outside. After that, a more permanent wall can be
constructed.

### The Bedrock

The bedrock on which the city stands is an extremely hard crystalline material.
It requires the highest level of technology and/or magic to pierce it.
Furthermore the bedrock seems to be organic in some way and it regenerates any
damage done to it within a few days.

A few of the attempts to massively dig down has resulted in exposing the city
directly to very dangerous areas of The Dungeon.

There seems to be no clear correlation between where you dig down and which
area of The Dungeon is exposed.


### Resources

The city has almost no resources. There is no mining due to the special nature
of the bedrock. Farming can only be undertaken with dirt collected in The
Dungeon, combined with manure reasons a) the unnatural bedrock is almost
impossible to pierce or destroy. On top of that of the unnatural bedrock on
which it stands. More would expose The Dungeon.

Adventurers have to go into The Dungeon to find or harvest food for the
citizens.


### Variant: Conflicted City

The city is riddled with conflict, corruption, politics and drama. Guilds
constantly compete for power and resources.  It is usually the adventurers that
suffer when the rich and powerful citizens compete against each other.  For
instance, adventurers have to *pay* to get/accept quests. Only if they return
will they get their deposit back as well as the reward.

If adventurers bring loot up top that is not directly sanctioned via a quest,
it is heavily taxed.

## The Dungeon

The Dungeon is a bit like the city in Blame!


## Beyond The City


Sometimes rare treasure is found as well.

Sometimes a so-called land-shard is found. Land-shards can be used to expand
the city, making more room for citizens.

The city has huge towers to accommodate all the citizens.

There are monsters a plenty, but they never enter the city for some reason.

Citizens can be outcast into The Dungeon. There are communities and villages of
non-monsters that survive in The Dungeon.

A citizen can be outcast by magic such that they cannot enter the city again.

Sometimes The Dungeon changes. It happens every few months, years and/or
decades. After such shifts The Dungeon becomes more or less unrecognizable and
adventurers must yet again map out the areas and clear the monsters.

There are many rumors about what happens to adventures caught in The Dungeon
when it shifts.

There are rumors that if you go far enough, you might eventually come to other
cities.
